Update amazon-ec2-connector (Guide) (#465)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/amazon/amazon-ec2-connector.adoc

= Amazon EC2 Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../../assets/images/

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Anypoint Connector for Amazon EC2 provides connectivity to the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) API,

> enabling you to interface with Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage.

Reviewer: Not convinced that we need "or as few," but up to you!

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/amazon-ec2-connector-release-notes-mule-4.adoc[Amazon EC2 Connector Release Notes] +
Exchange: https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/com.mulesoft.connectors/mule-amazon-ec2-connector/[Amazon EC2 Connector - Mule 4]

[[prerequisites]]
== Prerequisites

> To use the Amazon EC2 Connector, you must have the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Amazon EC2 Connector, you must have the following:
```

* Access to Amazon Web Services - EC2.
* AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user account credentials.

> * Anypoint Studio version 7 or Anypoint Design Center.

Reviewer: no periods: neither is a sentence
GLOBAL when none of the list items is a sentence.

[%header,cols="20a,80a",width=70%]
|===
|Application/Service |Version

> |Mule Runtime |4.1.0 or later

Reviewer: GLOBAL/TEMPLATE
```suggestion
|Mule runtime engine |4.1.0 or later
```
OR
```suggestion
|Mule |4.1.0 or later
```

|===

== Add the Connector to Your Project

Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette view.

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "ec2".
. Select the connector and click *Add to project*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

=== Add the Connector in Studio

. In Studio, create a Mule project.
. In the Mule Palette view, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "ec2" in the search field.
. Click this connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

[[config]]
== Configure a Global Element

To use the Amazon EC2 connector in your Mule application, configure a global Amazon EC2 element that can be used by all the Amazon EC2 connectors in your project.

. Click the *Global Elements* tab at the base of the canvas.
. In the Global Mule Configuration Elements screen, click *Create*.

> . In the Choose Global Type wizard, expand Connector Configuration, select *Amazon EC2: Configuration* and click *OK*.

Reviewer: series comma
```suggestion
. In the Choose Global Type wizard, expand Connector Configuration, select *Amazon EC2: Configuration*, and click *OK*.
```

+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-config-global-wizard.png[Global Element Configuration Wizard]
+
. Configure the parameters:

> +

Reviewer: This should be a list, not a table

[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

> |Name |Enter a name for the configuration to reference it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name |Name for the configuration to reference it
```

Reviewer: ...and no periods

|Try Default AWS Credentials Provider Chain |Checkbox that controls whether temporary credentials should be used.
|===
+
. Set the placeholder values in the `mule-artifact.properties` configuration file in the
`src/main/resources` folder of your project.
+

> You can either enter your credentials into the global configuration properties, or reference a configuration file that contains these values. For simpler maintenance and better re-usability of your project, Mule recommends that you use a configuration file. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where your access credentials differ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either enter your credentials into the global configuration properties or reference a configuration file that contains these values. For simpler maintenance and better reusability of your project, use a configuration file. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where your access credentials differ.
```

+

> . Leave the *Advanced* tab with its default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Leave the *Advanced* tab values unchanged.
```

. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that the parameters of your global configuration are accurate, and that Mule is able to successfully connect to your instance of Amazon EC2.
. Click *OK* to save the global connector configuration.

> == Configure With the XML Editor or Standalone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configure with the XML Editor or Standalone
```

In Studio, when you drag the connector from the Mule Palette view to the canvas, Studio automatically populates the XML code and POM file for the connector namespace and schema location. 

> Alternatively, if you wish to code the connector manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can code the connector manually:
```

	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw/current/dw.xsd
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2/current/mule-ec2.xsd">
	<!-- Put your flows and configuration elements here -->
</mule>
----
+
. Create a global Amazon EC2 configuration outside your flows, using the following global configuration code:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ec2:config name="Amazon_EC2_configuration" doc:name="Amazon EC2 Configuration" >
	<ec2:basic-connection 
		accessKey="${amazon.accesskey}" 
		secretKey="${amazon.secretkey}"
		region="${amazon.region}" />
</ec2:config>
----
+

> . Include this XML snippet in your pom.xml file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Include this XML snippet in your pom.xml file:
```

* ModifyVolumeAttribute
* ResetSnapshotAttribute

[[use-cases-and-demos]]
== Use Cases and Demos

Common use cases for the connector:

* Create an EBS volume to attach to an instance in the same availability zone
* Attach an EBS volume to a running or stopped Amazon EC2 instance
* Restart an Amazon EBS-backed AMI that you've previously stopped
* Stop an Amazon EC2 instance

[[example-use-case]]
=== Create an EBS Volume

> This demo creates an EBS volume that you can attach to an EC2 instance in the same availability zone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example creates an EBS volume that you can attach to an EC2 instance in the same availability zone:
```

image::amazon/amazon-ec2-create-volume-usecase-flow.png[Creating an EBS volume]

. Create a new Mule project in Anypoint Studio.

> . Add the following properties to the `mule-artifact.properties` file to hold your Amazon EC2 credentials and place it in the project's `src/main/resources` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the following properties to the `mule-artifact.properties` file to hold your Amazon EC2 credentials and place it in the project's `src/main/resources` directory:
```

amazon.region=<Region>
----
+
. Drag the HTTP Listener component to the canvas, and set *Host* to `localhost` and *Port* to the `8081` value.
. Drag the Amazon EC2 Connector *Create volume* operation next to the HTTP Listener component.

> . Configure the EC2 connector by adding a new Amazon EC2 Global Element. Click the plus sign next to the Connector Configuration field.

Reviewer: Looks like two steps rather than one....

. Configure the global element:
+
[%header,cols="30s,40a,30a"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Value

> |Name |Enter a name for the configuration to reference it. |<Configuration_Name>

Reviewer: ditto previous edits re. making first item fragment for parallelism and omitting periods in the Description column

|Access Key |Alphanumeric text string that uniquely identifies the user who owns the account. |`${amazon.accesskey}`
|Secret Key |Key that plays the role of a password. |`${amazon.secretkey}`

> |Region Endpoint |Region to be select from drop down for the Amazon EC2 Client. |USEAST1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Region Endpoint |Region to select from the menu for the Amazon EC2 Client. |USEAST1
```

|===
+
Your configuration should look like this:
+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-use-case-config.png[ec2 use case config]
+
The corresponding XML configuration should be as follows:
+
[source,xml]
----
<ec2:config name="Amazon_EC2_configuration" doc:name="Amazon EC2 Configuration" >
<ec2:basic-connection 
	accessKey="${amazon.accesskey}" 
	secretKey="${amazon.secretkey}" 
	region="${amazon.region}" />
</ec2:config>
----
+

> . Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the EC2 instance. If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configurations. Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, then test again.

Reviewer: Two steps:
```suggestion
. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the EC2 instance. 
. If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configurations. 
Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters and then test again.
```

. In the properties editor, configure the remaining parameters:

> +

Reviewer: s/b a list and not a table

+
. Check that your XML looks like this:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ec2:create-volume 
	config-ref="Amazon_EC2_configuration" 
	availabilityZone="us-east-1a" 
	doc:name="Create volume" 
	size="5"/>
----
+
. Add Set Payload after the Amazon EC2 Create Volume operation to send the response to the client in the browser.

> . Set *Value* to `#[payload.volume.volumeId]` to print the volume ID of the EBS volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set *Value* to `#[payload.volume.volumeId]` to print the volume ID of the EBS volume:
```

+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-create-volume-payload.png[ec2 create volume payload transformer]
+

> . Add a Logger component after Set Payload to display the Volume ID that is being transformed by the Set Payload transformer from the Create Volume operation in the Mule Console. 

Reviewer: Do we mean API console?

> . Set the Logger *Message* to `#[payload]` and *Level* to INFO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Set the Logger *Message* to `#[payload]` and *Level* to INFO:
```

+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-create-volume-logger-props.png[ec2 create volume logger]
+
. Right-click the project in Package Explorer and click *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

> . Browse to `+http://localhost:8081/createVolume+`. You should see the generated Volume ID in the browser and the console.

Reviewer: Break list items and steps after first sentence GLOBALLY:
```suggestion
. Browse to `+http://localhost:8081/createVolume+`. 
You should see the generated Volume ID in the browser and the console:
```

[[example-code]]

> === Demo Mule App XML Code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Example Mule App XML Code
```

Reviewer: In fact, the text below calls it "example use case"....

> Paste this code into your XML Editor to quickly load the flow for this example use case into your Mule app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Paste this code into your XML Editor to quickly load the flow for this example use case into your Mule app:
```

http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2
http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2/current/mule-ec2.xsd">
	<http:listener-config 
		name="HTTP_Listener_config" 
		doc:name="HTTP Listener config" >
		<http:listener-connection host="localhost" port="8081" />
	</http:listener-config>
	<ec2:config 
		name="Amazon_EC2_configuration" 
		doc:name="Amazon EC2 Configuration" >
		<ec2:basic-connection 
			accessKey="${amazon.accesskey}" 
			secretKey="${amazon.secretkey}"
			region="USEAST1" />
	</ec2:config>
	<flow name="create-ebs-volume" >
		<http:listener 
			config-ref="HTTP_Listener_config" 
			path="/createVolume" 
			doc:name="Listener" />
		<ec2:create-volume 
			config-ref="Amazon_EC2_configuration" 
			availabilityZone="us-east-1a"
			doc:name="Create volume" 
			size="5"/>
		<set-payload 
			value="#[payload.volume.volumeId]" 
			doc:name="Set Payload"  />
		<logger 
			level="INFO" 
			doc:name="Logger" 
			message="#[payload]"/>
	</flow>
</mule>
----

[[see-also]]
== See Also

> * There may be operations not supported by the connector that are provided for AWS http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_Operations.html[AWS EC2 Actions]. If you require  additional operations to be supported, see the https://support.mulesoft.com/s/ideas[Support Portal].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some operations are not supported by the connector that are provided for  http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/APIReference/API_Operations.html[AWS EC2 Actions]. If you require additional operation support, see the https://support.mulesoft.com/s/ideas[Support Portal].
```
